So that's a server and
we can send back whatever we want.
But now, what we're gonna do is we're
gonna write a server that takes all of our
notes from our database and
creates a website from the notes and
puts them on the page so
we can view them all.
So we can see them without having to
do only the get all terminal command,
the CLI command,
get some visual representation.
And you can even add to that,
add some JavaScript to it to now you
can actually interact with
the notes on the actual website.
So let's do that.
So if you go down to
a Vanilla server here.
First thing we wanna do is,
we need to create
the HTML file in which we
will embed the notes into.
And then we'll have to interpolate
those notes into the HTML file.
Everyone know what interpolate means?
So if you've ever used React, you've been
interpolating this whole time, right?
To interpolate something means to like,
if I have a string.
Let's say like this,
let's I'm gonna take some data.
And I'm gonna return a string
that has this is my name,
and it's like data.name,
that's interpolation.
I'm interpolating this
data into this string.
So I'm gonna replace whatever this is
with whatever the value of this is.
So I'm gonna interpolate, so
we need to do that we need an HTML file
that has some placeholder in it that
we can swap out with the notes that
we pull from our JSON file, right?
Cuz we're not gonna put our
notes in the HTML file.
We wanna keep them in a JSON file, but
we need to put them in the HTML file
before we send it to the browser so
that they show up.
Let's do that.
I'm actually gonna delete this server.js
file because we're gonna
create another one.
Then the first thing is inside a source,
I'm gonna make a template.html.
I'm just gonna make a blank html thing,
write html5,
give us a blank one here, nothing crazy.
And then I mean you can put whatever you
want here, there's really no right or
wrong answer.
I'm just gonna put like div.notes,
lIke this, and then I'm just gonna put for
my interpolated value I'm
gonna double brackets.
I was gonna put notes like that.
So this will be my placeholder.
So we're gonna write some
code that's basically gonna
replace this with the actual
notes that we pull in.
That it's gonna replace this with other
HTML that we derived from the note that
we pull in we'll have to read
the rights and dynamic HTML as well.
Cuz you just want to stick some
JavaScript in here look terrible.
So follow me so far?
Yeah, The next thing we want to do
is install this thing called Open.
Open is a package that basically opens
the browser for us automatically.
Do we need it?
No, but it looks cool.
So let's do it.
So we're gonna npm install open.
And again, this is just gonna allow us to
automatically open a browser when we want
to see our new notes without us having
to click on anything or open it ourself.
So we'll install open.
And the next thing we need to do is
start creating some of these functions
from the server to starting the server
to the interpolating the notes.
And all different types of things.
So first thing first is I'm just gonna
start here cuz I'm not writing that regex
from scratch again.
So we're [LAUGH] going to create a new
file called server JS and a source folder.
So make a new file called server JS.
And at the top,
we're just gonna import the FS.
We're gonna import HTTP and
we're gonna import open.
And then I have this interpolate function.
Okay, let's talk about this function.
This function does exactly what
I said it was going to do.
It's going to take in an HTML string and
an object with some data on it.
And it's going to replace
every instance of,
this with the appropriate
matching property on the data.
So it's gonna swap that out.
So if there was something called name in
that string it's gonna replace it with
whatever data name was.
If there was something called in our
case notes it's gonna replace it
with whatever data notes was.
And that's what this regex is doing.
It's actually not a hard regex.
If you look at it, you can see
that like look for a left bracket,
look for a left bracket, look for any
space, look for a word with any letter,
look for any space, look for
a right bracket, look for a right bracket.
Globally, on the entire string.
That's what that regex is saying.
It's actually not too bad,
it's just ugly looking.
Then yeah, replace it.
So we call it the dot replace on it.
Then you can see right here,
it tries to replace it with something
that's matching on the data.
If not, just put an empty
string if it doesn't exist.
So we now have our interpolate.
From here, what we need to do is assuming
we need to take in the notes array that
we get from our database, and we need
to convert them to divs, all right?
We want a div for each note.
So this is very similar to what you were
doing like a react or svelte or a view or
something like that.
You would you would do this.
So, let's do that, so
const formatnotes, take some notes.
And it's just going to
return notes.map on a note.
That's just going to return some string
here, that's a div with the class of note.
And I mean, there's really no right or
wrong answer, it's just HTML.
I'm just gonna put a P tag here.
This is gonna say
note.consent like that and
I'm gonna put another div here for tags or
actually I'll put a span here so
they sit next to each other.
So we got tags here and then, I don't
know why I put class name, that's funny.
[LAUGH] Actually no, let's do a div.
So div tags.
And then for each one of those we
could just map over it and do a span.
So we'll just say notes.tags.map,
grab this tag, return a new span.
So we got a template tag
inside of a template tag.
This has a class of tag and
then inside of here, it's the actual tag.
So a little nested
interpolation going on there.
And then we need to join all this cuz
otherwise it'll give us an array.
Let's join this on.
I mean,
it doesn't matter if they touch but for
aesthetic purposes,
put them on a new line.